---
title: City I
author: xkollar
tags: SoC
---

City. As I remember it.

Through the mist of imperfect human brain I remember the day I arrived. Or
rather through the rain. Heavy rain. Walking alone through the night to the
bust stop. It was not the first time that such weather would make me company
through moments of impactful change. And certainly not the last one.

On arrival presenting itself as what I would back then perceive (considering
myself very insightful and no doubt very modest) as something that would not be
hard to interpret as a sin city. Certainly some parts of the city can be
perceived as such, especially with an eye untrained to recognize its beauty.

It was not very long after my arrival that I have subconsciously started
calling it home. Most of my (very few) friends lived there and I was about to
make couple more over the time.

Eyes closed I can bring back memories of looking at the city. Various points
in time and space. Sometimes focusing on details, sometimes letting in broader
picture. Soaking in views that various places had to offer, some of them in the
centre, some of them on a periphery. Knowing where you are just by a glimpse at
the nearby litter bin or manhole cover. Taking pictures of those was fun.

Walking. Destination long forgotten. Colourful leaves under my feet cover whole
pavement. Legs, usually racing, now almost playful, move in a way to make as
much as possible of the lovely noise to caress the mind through ears. Red,
yellow, orange, and brown of flora against the blue sky brightened by friendly
sunbeams. Complemented by melancholy of rainy days. Long walks. City is mine.
Everybody else hides in the comfort of their cosy homes. I like that.

All leaves has fallen, and black guardians come as a balancing force against
the blinding whiteness of snow. Winter. Park. Standing. Waiting. Looking at the
tree. Wearing black. And the crow is looking back, assessing risks of offered
walnut being just a bait luring him into a trap which even his intelligence can
not uncover. Time is slow. Or maybe some of his comrades will come first? It is
a game of nerves. I raise the stakes by throwing in another oily goodie. This
game can last very long.

Walking through thick fog. Air full of water. Enjoying every breath of unusual
substance. Even the light has trouble penetrating this moist curtain. Visible
light cones under every street light. And glowing trees. More walking. Watching
city from any of many lookout places. Distant traffic lights suddenly switch to
night mode, orange light blinking with what feels like ever decreasing
frequency. But you know it is just your perception of time that is changing.

More walking. Snow disappears and temporal muddy mood gets very soon replaced
by delight of green so vivid, that it seems it is the colour of life itself.
And magnolia trees. There are not many of them, but it is so worth to take
a detour just to see them. You are just roaming around anyway.

And summer. Hot days. City gets noticeably emptier as students leave the city.
Them leaving and coming back is the breath of the city. Bringing in new ideas and
spreading others. Even nights are hot.

Being part of the city. Midnight shopping. Sitting in the park at 2am, eating
what nearby chain grocery store had to offer at such time.

It truly felt a home. Was a home. So I had to leave. To fall for another city.
Maybe.
